So let's take a look at my approach to these tasks,
and don't worry if your code is different from mine.
As long as it works, everything's fine.
If you ask 100 programmers to write a piece of code to solve the same problem,
what you will get is 105 different solution.
This actually shows that coding really is something super creative.
Now, let's take a look at my solution to the problem.
So let's take a look at how this is done here.
So the first what we do is we create a vector consisting of latter points.
We read the latter points from a file.
So that's a point Cloud which I have stored in
the special formatting and the stuff file especially for this example.
Then we create two size vectors using an open CV data structure.
The first is called worldSize and the second is called imageSize.
In worldSize, we encode the desired width and height of
the sense of field which we want to create as a top view image in meters.
So it's going to be 10 meters in width and 20 meters in length.
The second is we want to create an image which is representing the world in pixels,
and basically what it says is we want the 10 meters from
the worldSize coordinate system to be mapped onto the 1,000 pixels in width,
and the 20 meters in driving direction,
we want to map to 2,000 pixels in height of the resulting image size.
So that's the size of the actual top view image,
which can also be seen here in the next line where the city mock data structures created,
the variable is called top view image.
It takes the image size.
It takes eight bit values in three channels,
that's per the denoted by the C3 at the end here,
and the image is going to be black by default.
So 255 and all channels would be white, this is black.
What we do then here starting a line 571,
we loop over all the Lidar points we loaded from the file,
and the respective points to per iteration points to a single Lidar point,
which we then process here in the following.
So the first which happens once we start iterating over the Lidar point Cloud is,
we retrieve the X-coordinate,
which is the coordinate in driving direction facing away from the sensor,
second is the Y-coordinate.
It's the world position in meters with Y axis pointing left.
What we do here is the actual conversion between the two coordinate systems.
So xw and yw is in meters and metric coordinates in the sensor
coordinate system and x and y here
is in the actual image in the top view coordinate system.
So what you can see here,
the transformation equations is they take the respective word
coordinates then they are scaled by the ratio
of image size height versus weld size height.
So we look at the ratio between those two structures above here.
So we divide image size 1,000 by 10.
So we exactly know what the mapping ratio
between those two reference frames is going to be,
and we add the height of the image size.
The same is done for 4X.
Once you have completed this basically what you get is,
you have a mapping between the pixels and the top few imaged
and the respective position and the metric position in the sensor coordinate system.
Now what we do here in this area,
we first retrieve the Z in word coordinates,
which is basically the height above road surface.
So 0.0 would be on the height of the actual Lidar sensor,
and the Z-axis is facing upwards,
so downwards we get negative coordinates and the road surface is at about
one meter 55 something like this facing downwards from the sensors.
So when we create a variable min Z as it is done here,
and assign it the value minus 1.4 meters,
what we do is we basically tell the system to not consider
any points which are below this minimum Z threshold.
So all the points which are above the threshold,
which are above the road surface are considered for display,
the rest is simply ignored.
What's done here and this area here,
so all the points which are sufficiently
high above the road surface and also you might want to
play around with this value here to see
what the resulting top of your image looks like when you,
for example, just the two one meter 60, or one meter 30,
or even one meter, just take a look at what the respective image looks like.
It's quite interesting because when you change this value
and for example imagine a car with a certain width,
and you have basically a point Cloud representing
this car and it narrows down while you get to the roof,
because the widest perimeter of the car
is approximately on the height of the tail lights,
and if you adjust the scan width or the height,
the Z variable to a setting for example,
let's say minus 0.80 centimeters,
what you will see in the resulting top of your image is that the car which you
scan actually gets narrower because you move upwards in the respective Z threshold.
So in this area here what you do is,
you assign a color value to every Lidar points.
So the first thing we do is we retrieve the X-value in driving direction.
That's our scaling value.
What we want to do is we want to color code the distance from the center so that
close points appear in red and far away points appear in green,
and that's why when we jumped on to
this line here where we draw the actual circle into the top of your image,
we provided with the coordinates in the pixel framework.
We say, okay one Lidar point should have a radius of five pixels,
and then that's why I've jumped into this line here.
Then we assign it a color value which consists
of a zero in the first channel and which is the blue channel.
Then we have the green channel here and the red channel here,
and those values they are controlled by the ratio between
the respective X value of the Lidar point versus a maximum value here.
The maximum value which we get here is world size point height.
The world size point height variable has been set up here it's 20 meters.
That's the maximum distance which the top of
your image allows for in terms of displaying Lidar points are far away.
So 20 meters is going to be bright green and zero meters is going to be bright red,
and that's the scaling value which we use here.
So maximum denotes 20 meters.
Now the red channel should be a 255 when
we have a distance of zero meters away from the sensor,
and actually that computation is done here.
So we take the actual X-value,
subtract from it the maximum value,
and then scale it by the maximum value.
Now let's make a short example.
Let's assume we have a point directly in front of the sensor,
which is going to be zero meters.
So we have zero minus maxVal,
we then compute the absolute value so the sign gets lost.
So basically what we have here is we divide maximum value by maximum value, which is one,
which leads to this product here to be 255,
which assigns 255 to the red channel.
The same is done for the green channel with the only difference that we do not
take the absolute value of this difference here,
but instead we take the absolute value of the difference but subtract it from one.
So we invert the green channel to be exactly the opposite of the red channel.
So let's make the same example here.
So value zero meters directly in front of the sensor,
we subtract from it max value,
which is 20 meters,
that gives us a one here,
and now we have one minus one, which is zero.
So at position zero meters away from the sensor,
the green channel is at zero.
If we move away to let's say 20 meters,
we have 20 meters minus 20 meters, which is zero.
So we have one minus zero, which is one.
So at 20 meters distance,
the green channel is going to be 255,
and the red channel if you run the same numbers here is going to be zero.
So the circle which is being displayed is
color-coded in terms of the distance away from the sensor,
and we do this by shifting the color bands and scaling them with regards to
the actual distance of the sensor point away from the sensor.
That's happening in this loop for all Lidar points.
The next thing which happens here is we plot the distance markers onto the top view area.
It makes sense to have a rough feel for how far away certain objects are.
Also when you look at the image sequences,
which we are using in this course,
you will see that it's helpful to have a
few for how far away objects in the top view image are.
In order to make this easier,
we simply plot distance markers with line spacing of two meters.
So what we want to achieve is we want to have a horizontal line
every two meters on
the entire top of your image so that we can easily see where objects are.
So we can do this by running over this loop here,
which basically says we compute the number of markers
scaled in terms of the current height of the top few image.
So top view image currently is 20 meters in height.
We divide this by the line spacing,
which is two meters which gives us 10 markers which we put into the image.
We now loop over those 10 markers here and every two meters we simply
paint a blue line which runs horizontally across the top of your image.
Then the last thing which remains to be done is to
simply display the actual top view image.
Let's run this code to see how it looks.
What you can see here is a very nice rendering of the scene in front of us.
So close points are color-coded bright red
and while we move away from the sensor into driving direction,
that's the 20 meter mark,
we can see that the latter points at the far end of
this 20 meter mark are painted bright green just as we wanted it to be.
In the middle, we have a certain mixture gradual transition between red and green.
Now that the line marker is a two meter mark,
four meter mark, six meter mark, eight meter mark,
and the vehicle directly in front of the sensor this one here,
is at a little less than eight meters away.
We will be using this vehicle here very,
very thoroughly in terms of computing time
to collisional in a later section of this course,
and you should recall that this is roughly eight meters away from the sensor.
When this vehicle breaks,
this edge here is moving closer to the sensor,
which enables us to compute an estimate of the time to collision.
So that's the code for rendering a top of your image.
So as you just saw, I'm Generating the top of your image is pretty easy.
The only thing we have to think a little is the conversion between world
coordinates in one side and top view coordinates on the other side, but that's about it.
Now we are able to visualize Lidar data,
and also use color to show an additional layer of information.
If you feel like it why not replace the distant coloring which we use now with
a reflectivity coloring to see which objects reflect the laser well and which don't.
But now let's move on to the next section where we
want to start working on a way to project
Lidar points onto the image point so we can visualize them directly in the camera image.